This thesis has presented the research work carried out between September 2019 and
December 2022, on both upgrades to the \ac{ATLAS} \ac{L1Calo} trigger and
analysis of data in search of rare \ac{EW} \ac{SM} processes in the \Zyjj final
state.

The presented developments to the \ac{L1Calo} trigger will, alongside the work
done by the rest of the \ac{L1Calo} community, improve the amount of data
\ac{ATLAS} is able to record across two phases of trigger upgrades, 
lasting for more than a decade. The \ac{eFEX} visualisation tool has already
been used to highlight bugs in the Run-3 system, and the early Run-3 data
analysis contributed to the fine-tuning of the \egamma trigger. Meanwhile, the
\eratio algorithm development and performance studies will help build the
upgrade for the next iteration of the Level-1 trigger.

With the help of a small analysis team, the \ac{VBS} \Zy analysis presented in
Chapter \ref{sec:vbs} was able to observe the targeted process with a
significance of 10 standard deviations. This process had not been previously
observed by \ac{ATLAS} and contributes to a programme of \ac{VBS} studies that
probe the \ac{SM} multiboson interactions.

Finally, the semileptonic \VZy analysis produced a measurement for the signal
strength of this relatively untouched process, presenting a limit on its
production at 3.5 times the \ac{SM}-predicted rate, at the 95\% confidence
level. This analysis tackled a difficult phase space with very large
backgrounds, but also provides strong indication of the feasibility of future
studies of the process. Finding evidence or an observation with a combined Run-2
and Run-3 dataset is expected to be very challenging, but with a re-optimised
analysis and additional channels, and perhaps some upgraded analysis techniques,
it could be possible.
